Let's go to the context component here.
All right, so let's hide this again.
So, let's talk about
the prop drilling problem.
You can see here I have
a lot of components.
I have a level 1 context component,
level 2,
level 3, level 4, and then level 5, right?
So this is the parent, child,
grandchild, great grandchild,
great, great grandchild in terms
of the hierarchy here, right?
Let's say that I have this, First
level I have this object
here of James Jamison who's
at his email, and
I have this user data that I need to
get from the first level
all the way to level 5.
Now, if we weren't using context
the way that we would do that is we
would have const object or person,
let's just call it person.
And just say like that's an object
here and what we would have to do
is each one of these, you'd have to
say person equals person, right?
And then here I would have to say props.
Person equals, Props.person.
Then here I would have to say props,
Props equals,
beside person equals props.person.
Same thing here.
So hopefully you're getting the point is
that I have to keep handing this down,
over and over and over again.
Let's actually just go through with it so
you can feel my pain,
cuz before context is around,
this is what you had to do.
Then finally here I can put
like let's put another h5 here,
Of JSON.stringify,
props.person, All right, so
let's just have props here.
So you can see down here,
finally I got the person all the way down.
Now, isn't that just
an exercise in frustration?
So, when it's bad uncouple is, when I was
just annoying to type to get all the way
from the top level,
all the way down to the bottom level.
But secondly,
it's actually kind of a bad thing overall,
because now all of these components,
which didn't know or care about person,
now I have to individually
care about person.
And so if I wanna move level 3 to be
used somewhere else in my application,
I have to make sure that person
is being passed into there, or
else that component, no longer works.
I've now made each one of these components
that actually really didn't care about
props.person, whatever
was gonna be in here?
Now each one of them is kind
of tied in this chain, and
they have to have it or they break.
Wouldn't be better if we could do
something different where we could
actually just pass it directly
from this top level person or
this context component directly
all the way to level 5.
And you can,
there's a thing called context.
So the first thing I'm going to do here
is I'm going to create my context.
Constusercontext equals create
context which comes from react.
Wrap.
Okay, so that's coming from react here.
Okay?
So I've created this context,
I gave it a default object.
So if there's no default state,
it just gives you this kind of, or
sorry, if there's no provided state,
it gives you this default state.
Normally won't do that, but it's good to
know that that's what this object is.
That's why you see here that it's
James Jamison and not Bob Bobason, okay?
And then if I go down here to this,
I mean you can see here if I
actually just delete this.
You'll see that this is actually
changed to Bob Bobason.
Maybe not.
Yeah.
It's because it's not
getting actual real estate.
So, in any case, that's what this is for.
It's for default objects but because
we're actually hooking it into a hook,
that's not why it's gonna work, okay?
So I have this User Provider.
This is actually what's going to
provide everything in this context to
the lower components here, so
that's why level 2, level 3, level 4,
level 5 can all access
these pieces of context.
But here, inside of level 5,
I have this use context
which I'm providing the use
context from here, and
I'm pulling out the user and
the set user which I provided
up here inside of the context component,
right?
And that's why I'm able
to have data up here.
So James Jamison, and
I'm able to use that down here in level 5.
That's why I can even do increment, right?
So this is actually incrementing
the number here that's being
stored here in the context component
here in this state, this suffix, right?
So this gets around
the prop drilling problem,
which is what I showed
you here with the person.
And it also gets around
the making all these intermediary
components care about the person
which they shouldn't have to.
Now the question might ask me is like,
okay, here's a contrived example.
What am I actually gonna use
this really my application,
and I'm going to encourage you to
be sparing in how you use context.
Because one of the nice things
about what I did here with
person is it's now very
explicit where this came from.
I know exactly where person came from
because I can follow the trail back here
I can say, okay, level 5 got it from
level 4, level 4 got it from level 3,
cuz I can see it, right?
Whereas here, I just do use context and
I pull this in,
it's I don't actually really
know where this came from.
I don't know where the context
was set where it's being tracked,
who cares about it.
So that's indirection.
And one of the strengths of
react is that it's explicit,
it makes it very easy to read and follow.
So just know that it's a powerful tool
that you're introducing indirection to
your application, which is hard, right?
You want to have as much explicitness and
readability and
maintainability that your app can have.
>> Is this the same context that we used
yesterday for the colors for the theme?
>> So the question is this the same
context that we used in the complete intro
to react view 6 for the theme,
and the answer's yes,
it's the exact same concept here.
So yeah, steaming would be another good
example of some time when you might use
context, right?
Because you have all these various
different parts of your application.
If you want to switch to dark mode,
a lot of your components are going
to have to care about I was like,
I'm in dark mode now I have to
do things differently, right?
So that'd be a good example
of global application state.
And that's kind of the key here,
is you need to think of things in
like global application state.
That's when context is useful.
What is the second argument
of the create context?
So you're probably asking
what this one is right here.
So notice this is actually one argument,
it's an array, and
this is actually just
made to look like a hook,
and the reason why I do this is it makes
it easier for type script to type.
So this is the use state hook, where
the first thing is the default state and
the second thing is the set state.
Beside the first thing is actually
the hook, contained in the hook.
And the second thing is the set value.
So in this particular case is
an object that returns an object.
That's how the set state works.
So if you remember here,
you state returns a,
we'll just look up here, returns.
The first thing is the user,
the second thing is the set user, and
this is just mimicking that.
So if I had context, which doesn't always
have to be a hook, by the way, and all I
was checking was a color, what I would
have here instead would be green, right?
So that's what that second thing is,
it's just the set state for
the state hook.
>> So is the use context like
the way it manages global state,
similar to the way Redux does it?
>> You're going to use Context in places
that where you typically would probably
use Redux, right?
You're gonna use Context and
Redux in similar ways, and frequently,
you probably don't want to
use them at the same time.
I would suggest either using Context or
using Redux.
It's not a hard and fast rule but I would
say that's how I'm gonna approach it.
And I would say that's a pretty
good way to approach it.
Redux also takes a while,
we have a whole section on Redux so
we'll wait to talk more about that later.
But yeah,
you would use them in similar places.
Does context modify the global
scope of JavaScript and answers?
No, it doesn't.
It's kind of self-contained to react,
right?
So it only manages to modify this,
the user context which is kind
of globally available anywhere
inside of this provider, right?
So it's global to every component
inside of there, right?
But if I put that down here on level 2,
that means that this context component
would not be able to access it, right?
So it's only scoped to everything
inside of the provider.